=head1 NAME

on-all - Run a command on a list of hosts.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<on-all> [options] hostname... -- command

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<on-all> runs a command on a list of hosts.  The hosts can be listed on
the command line, or they can be read from one or more files, or both.

The command is run using ssh.

A summary of results will be printed after each host (this can be
suppressed.) The output of the command can be printed on one line after
each host name - this is useful for table-like output of simple commands.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item -h|--help

Print a help message then exit.

=item -V|--version

Print the version then exit.

=item -1|--single

For each host, print the host name, then the output from the remote command
on the same line.  We assume the output is a single line - no attempt is
made to enforce this.

=item -F|--files

Print the names of the host list files, and if specified, the files
specified by C<-N>.  Do not run any commands, and do not check that a
command is specified.

=item -H hostlistfile | --hostlist hostlistfile

Run on the hosts specified in F<hostlistfile>.

=item -L | --list-only

List the hosts that we would run the command on (after removing the hosts
from the C<-n> and C<-N> options), but do not run any commands.  The C<-->
option and the command are not required in this case.

=item -n host | --not host

Do not run on C<host>. This is useful when hostnames are read from a
hostlistfile, and we want to exclude one or some of them.

=item -N hostlistfile | --not-list hostlistfile

Do not run on hosts specified in F<hostlistfile>.

=item -o option | --ssh-option option

Add C<option> as C<-o option> to the ssh command line.

=item -q|--quiet

Do not print the host summary after each host.

=item -r

Do the list in reverse order.

=item -R [name] | --record=[name]

Record success in C<name.success>, failure in C<name.failure> and no connection
in C<name.noconnect>.  If C<name> is not supplied, use
C<on-all.YYYYmmdd-HHMMSS.success> etc.

=item -s prog | --ssh-program prog

Use C<prog> instead of ssh. (experimental)

=item -S|--sort

Sort the host names alphabetically before running the command on each.

=item -T

Don't allocate a tty in the ssh command.  Normally we add the C<-t> option
to ssh.  With the C<-T> option here, we do not.

=item -u name | --user name

Run on each host as C<name>.

=item -W hostlistfile |--wslist hostlistfile

Deprecated. Use C<-H>.  B<on-all> was once called "on-all-workstations", so
C<-W> meant "workstation list".

=item --

The C<--> argument is required, to separate the B<on-all> options from the
command and its options.

=item command ...

The command and arguments to run on each host.

=back

=head1 INFO

Host lists are in F<./>, F<~/etc/on-all/>, and
F</usr/local/etc/on-all>. Host list defaults to F<./all>, then
F<~/etc/on-all/all>, then F</usr/local/etc/on-all/all>.  It is an error if
no other list is specified and none of those exist.

If a list C<L> is specified as an argument to C<-W> or C<-N>, it is
searched for as F<./L>, then F<~/etc/on-all/L>, then
F</usr/local/etc/on-all/L>. It is an error if none of these exist.

C<-- command> must be supplied.

Hosts can be specified as:
   inside a host list file specified with C<-W>
   non-option arguments before the C<--> separator

Uses ssh, so if you have passwordless ssh logins for the right user, no
typing of passwords will be required.

B<BEWARE OF SHELL QUOTING IN YOUR COMMANDS.>

=head1 HOST LIST FILE

Hosts are listed in simple files, one per line.  Blank lines are
ignored. Only the first word on each line is used. Line starting with C<#>
are ignored.

A line starting with C<+> specifies another file to read recursively. No
check is done for file loops.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Run the hostname command on every workstation in your 'all' list:

    on-all -- hostname

Install the foo package on two workstations:

    on-all -u root ws1 ws2 -- yum install -y foo

Reboot all workstations in the office.  C<office> is a file containing a
list of workstations:

    on-all -u root -W office -- shutdown -r now

Remove apackage from all except the important workstations.  F<all> and
F<important> are files containing lists of workstations.

    on-all -u root -N important -- yum erase -y apackage

Look for all foo-client* packages on the remote-office workstations: The \|
makes the pipe and grep run on the remote office workstation, not locally:

    on-all -u root -W remote-office -- rpm -qa \| grep foo-client

List the mozilla files and directories in /tmp: The \* makes the wildcard
expand on the remote workstation, not locally:

    on-all -u root -- ls -ld /tmp/mozilla\*

=head1 AUTHOR

Russell Steicke <russells@adelie.cx>

L<https://github.com/russells/on-all>

